# Response to an Ongoing Disparagement Campaign Against AiB

We understand there is a swirl of allegations about AiB’s practices with
respect to former contractors and ex-employees, as well as with respect to open
source. The main (false) claim is that AiB is using unethical contract terms to
prevent a past core contributor from forking the Ignite CLI software which is
published under the Apache 2.0 license. These allegations are false, but AiB is
choosing not to engage in the details on this issue at this time—we will
provide more details on this situation at the appropriate time. What we can say
now is that we have not denied anyone's request for a waiver agreement.

## We need more than Apache 2.0 to protect goodwill

Goodwill is the most important component of an open-source project, but
goodwill is subject to public opinion and vulnerable to public disparagement
campaigns, especially by contributors previously hired by the company for the
project. Core contributors hired by a company are not only paid to work on that
specific project, but they also have a unique ability to transfer goodwill
through their association (or proprietary information) with the project more so
than independent third parties.

Attribution in the source code of any derivative works that are distributed,
copyrighted, patented, or trademarked, as per [the
terms](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0) of Apache 2.0 (or \*GPL),
isn’t enough to protect against disinformation and disparagement campaigns that
can erase the history of a project. Stronger attribution terms help, such as
requiring an explicit fork on GitHub to make the original project known.
Similarly, requiring a prominent link back to the original project in the
fork’s README file on GitHub enhances the basic terms of the Apache 2.0 license
to ensure that the existence of the original project is well communicated.

Such additional strong attribution terms help highlight the existence of the
original project, yet that hard-to-earn-and-easily-swayed goodwill is still
vulnerable to disinformation and disparagement. Non-defamation and
non-disparagement clauses can help against cases where public disparagement
campaigns are used to steal goodwill at the expense of the sponsor of an
open-source project. 

However, even with strong attribution and non-defamation/disparagement clauses,
goodwill can be transferred through other means. To illustrate, there is a
further misunderstanding about the current status of Ignite CLI and rumors
about AiB withdrawing funding from the Ignite CLI project. This is not the
case. AiB is continuing the funding and development of Ignite CLI by core
contributors who have worked on the project since its inception and who have
committed the overwhelming majority of its code. (This can be transparently
reviewed on [GitHub](https://github.com/ignite/cli/graphs/contributors).) As
another example, an Ignite CLI fork may advertise our previous work as their
own, merely swapping “Ignite CLI” for another name and claiming responsibility
for work that was only made possible by the contribution of many others under
the brand “Ignite CLI” (which had no community pool funding, no venture funds,
and was entirely AiB-funded). You can see the contributors
[here](https://github.com/ignite/cli/graphs/contributors) and
[here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1mh2Ijpfc38ZN94X7Jpy54C8ARRvFbK_cbQMrYBBGVHE/edit)
and Ignite branded events [here](https://cosmoverse.org/agenda/) and
[here](https://istanbulblockchainweek.com/ignite-workshop/) for some examples.

## Toward the optimal mutually beneficial system

Despite the issues mentioned above, a good open-source software company must
balance the need for core contributors to continue their line of work and
execute their vision while also protecting the interests of the company whose
funding made the project possible in the first place. AiB has and always will
be champions of open-source software, protecting the rights of creators,
architects, and core contributors, and ensuring best practices for
decentralized ecosystem development in a way that balances the dual mission of
producing social goods while also being sustainable and secure.

We will continue to create open-source products and find reasonable ways to
manage the public disparagement campaigns that have been affecting us for
years. These types of situations have sadly become inevitable for projects that
challenge the status quo. We urge all Cosmonauts to learn from our experiences
and to share their own, so that we can defend the truth together.

