# Dropping the Lawsuit, and Project Carmel

The Cosmos community voiced its opinions about the lawsuit, and we have heard
you loud and clear. We acknowledge that the existing court system is a
challenging forum for dispute resolution for members of the Cosmos community.
We aim now to resolve this situation by finding a more amicable and inclusive
approach that aligns with the principles of open dialog and freedom of choice. 

Today AiB has [dropped the lawsuit](./resources/docs/2023-07-10_notice_docket_20_0.pdf)
without prejudice filed against our former contractor, Grace Yu, for breach of
contract via disparagement and disclosure of confidential information. Our
decision to dismiss the lawsuit at this time should not be misconstrued as an
admission of wrongdoing on our part, nor any admission of the defendantâ€™s
claims. We firmly believe that the disparagement directed towards AiB was
unjust and unwarranted and stand by our filing.  Nevertheless, after careful
consideration, we have concluded that prolonging the lawsuit at this time is no
longer the preferred course of action for AiB and the Cosmos community.

While it is true that both parties still hold differing viewpoints regarding
the case, we believe that we have discovered a more efficient and agreeable
method to uncover the truth and address the concerns raised during the course
of this lawsuit. We understand the significance of transparency and
accountability, and we are also committed to sharing the details of this
alternative resolution protocol as they develop, which we are calling Project
Carmel ([link to draft spec](https://github.com/allinbits/carmel)). Project
Carmel is an alternative conflict resolution protocol that complements the
existing justice system and is especially designed to address a major issue in
our ecosystem: conflict arising from misleading or false statements. The
genesis of this idea originates from the [public debate between RKFjr and Peter
Hotez](https://twitter.com/TheChiefNerd/status/1670631728422027264?s=20), which
proved the value of incentivizing a debate as a means to make progress toward
truth discovery. We would like to collaborate with everyone to complete the
protocol spec, so please give us feedback and make suggestions to Project
Carmel by making a pull request on github.

We also want to give forgiveness a chance, inspired by the concept of the
[biblical Jubilee](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Leviticus%2025&version=KJV).
While we are willing to drop the charges and develop ProjectCarmel for the
general public in the spirit of forgiveness, we are also committed to
participating in ProjectCarmel should the attacks continue, or if Grace desires
to participate; the invitation is open.

This experience has provided us with invaluable lessons, and we are looking
forward to utilizing these insights to improve our practices and cultivate
stronger relationships within the community. Our sincere hope is that these
actions demonstrate our genuine desire to resolve the matter in good faith.  As
we move forward, our primary focus will be on contributing to the Cosmos and
Gno ecosystems, exploring opportunities for shared alignment between the two,
and playing a more active role in their growth. We will continue to bring our
contribution to Interchain Security, propose a comprehensive plan to fix the
governance issues for the Cosmos Hub and design new open source products for
the community such as Project Carmel on gno.land. We also have more exciting
initiatives in the works that will be announced at a future date.

